Docs: Ingress Controller (#2667)
pomerium/pomerium: docs/docs/k8s/ingress.md

```

::: details Write Policies in YAML

You can also define a route's policies using YAML:

```yaml
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  name: name
  annotations:
    ingress.pomerium.io/policy: |
      - allow:
          or:
            - domain:
                is: pomerium.com
```

:::

### Supported Annotations

Most configuration keys in non-kubernetes deployments can be specified as annotation in a Ingress Resource definition. The format is `ingress.pomerium.io/${OPTION_NAME}`. The expandable list below contains the annotations available, which behave as described in our reference documentation (with links to the appropriate reference documentation).

::: details Pomerium-Standard Annotations

- [`ingress.pomerium.io/allow_any_authenticated_user`]
- [`ingress.pomerium.io/allow_public_unauthenticated_access`]
- [`ingress.pomerium.io/allow_websockets`]
- [`ingress.pomerium.io/allowed_domains`]
- [`ingress.pomerium.io/allowed_groups`]
- [`ingress.pomerium.io/allowed_idp_claims`]
- [`ingress.pomerium.io/allowed_users`]
- [`ingress.pomerium.io/cors_allow_preflight`]
- [`ingress.pomerium.io/health_checks`]
- [`ingress.pomerium.io/idle_timeout`]

> - [`ingress.pomerium.io/lb_config`]

Reviewer: Should remove `health_checks` and `lb_config` for the time being.

> - [`ingress.pomerium.io/lb_config`]

Author: Resolved in https://github.com/pomerium/pomerium/pull/2667/commits/286ebb79dedc8d389fcb06eda3880b33f57d87b3

---
title: Ingress Controller
lang: en-US
sidebarDepth: 1
meta:
  - name: keywords
    content: pomerium identity-access-proxy oidc kubernetes Ingress reverse-proxy
---

# Kubernetes Ingress Controller

> Use Pomerium as a first-class secure-by-default Ingress Controller. Dynamically provision routes from Ingress resources and set policy based on annotations. By defining routes as Ingress resources you can independently create and remove them from Pomerium's configuration. This enables workflows more native to Kubernetes environments such as actions based on pull requests.

Reviewer 2: Maybe lead with the who cares: "The Pomerium Ingress Controller enables workflows more native to Kubernetes environments such as actions based on pull requests."

Thoughts?

Reviewer 2: > GitOps-style actions based on pull requests
?

Author: Updated

## Prerequisites

> - A certificate management solution. If you do not already have one in place, this article covers using Cert Manager.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A certificate management solution. If you do not already have one in place, this article covers using [cert-manager](https://cert-manager.io/).
```

> - A Redis backend with high-persistence is highly recommended.

Reviewer 2: Can we link to the redis docs?

Reviewer 2: What does high-persistence mean?

Author: Linked to Redis and specifically their section on Persistence.

### System Requirements

- Kubernetes v1.19.0+
- Pomerium [Helm Chart](https://github.com/pomerium/pomerium-helm/tree/master/charts/pomerium) v25.0.0+

### Limitations

::: warning

> Only one Ingress Controller instance/replica is supported per Pomerium cluster.

Reviewer 2: Is an instance different from a replica?

Author: I don't know the answer. @travisgroth?

Reviewer: Yes but we also limit to one active replica due to election semantics and the way rollouts work.

Author: @travisgroth so is this the most clear way of saying that? Should it be "instance and/or replica"?

Reviewer 3: when we create an Ingress Controller deployment via the helm chart, we specify it only has one replica: 

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
spec:
  replicas: 1
```

Author: So... Should we just say "replica" and remove "instance"? Or how about:

```suggestion
Only one Ingress Controller instance (defined in the spec as a replica) is supported per Pomerium cluster.
```
?

Reviewer: Probably best to keep it simple:

```suggestion
Only one Ingress Controller instance is supported per Pomerium cluster.
```

:::

## Installation

### Helm

Our instructions for [Installing Pomerium Using Helm](/docs/k8s/helm.md) includes the Ingress Controller as part of the documented configuration.

> ```yaml

Reviewer 2: What am I supposed to do with this yaml block in relation to the helm config?

Author: Nothing. This is the part of the Helm config in the linked guide. I'm adjusting the copy to make this clearer.

ingressController:
  enabled: true
```

### Docker Image

> You may deploy your own manifestations by using the `pomerium/ingress-controller` docker image.

Reviewer 2: What is a manifestation?

Author: It doesn't appear to be a term used in other talk about Docker or Kubernetes. Unless @travisgroth has any opinion on this, I'll change it to:

```suggestion
You may deploy the Ingress controller as part of a custom [manifest](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/manifest/) by using the `pomerium/ingress-controller` docker image.
```

Reviewer: Docs link should be to kubernetes - not docker - or just not a link.    

```suggestion
You may deploy the Ingress controller from your own manifests by using the `pomerium/ingress-controller` docker image.
```

## Configuration

|  Flag                          | Description                                                          |
| ------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | `--databroker-service-url`     | the databroker service url

Reviewer 2: The descriptions are inconsistent in how they capitalize the first letter.

Author: Resolved.

> | `--databroker-tls-ca`          | base64 encoded tls CA

Reviewer 2: TLS is typically uppercase (here and elsewhere)

Author: Fixed everywhere except in the custom annotations, where we're referring to a secret type that's lower case.

| `--databroker-tls-ca-file`     | tls CA file path for the databroker connection connection
| `--health-probe-bind-address`  | The address the probe endpoint binds to. (default ":8081")
| `--metrics-bind-address`       | The address the metric endpoint binds to. (default ":8080")
| `--name`                       | IngressClass controller name (default "pomerium.io/ingress-controller")

> | `--namespaces`                 | namespaces to watch, or none to watch all namespaces

Reviewer 2: is `none` a value?

Author: Yes, updated.

Reviewer 3: `none` is not literal, it just means omitting this option

Author: OK, changing to:

> Namespaces to watch, omit to watch all namespaces

Thanks.

Reviewer: Omitting it would imply none.  In usage it is just the list of namespaces to watch; defaulting to all.

| `--prefix`                     | Ingress annotation prefix (default "ingress.pomerium.io")
| `--shared-secret`              | base64-encoded shared secret for communicating with databroker
| `--update-status-from-service` | update ingress status from given service status (pomerium-proxy)|

The helm chart exposes a subset of these flags for appropriate customization.

## Usage

### Defining Routes

If you've tested Pomerium using the all-in-one service, you're probably familiar with configuring routes in Pomerium's `config.yaml`. In this environment, each route is defined as an Ingress resource in the Kubernetes API.

> The Ingress Controller will monitor Ingress resources in the cluster, creating a Pomerium route definition for each one.  Policy and other configuration options for the route are set by using annotations starting with `ingress.pomerium.io/`.

Reviewer 2: Can we link to the thing we are referencing here (the all in one service guide)?

Reviewer 2: > familiar with configuring routes in Pomerium's `config.yaml`.
if not, can we link them to the docs that outline the routes ad policies reference docs?

Reviewer 2: > In this environment

`this` being an Ingress Controller?

Author: Updated to specify the subject.

    - allow:
        and:
          - email:
              is: user@yourdomain.com
```

::: details Write Policies in YAML

You can also define a route's policies using YAML:

```yaml
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  name: name
  annotations:
    ingress.pomerium.io/policy: |
      - allow:
          or:
            - domain:
                is: pomerium.com
```

:::

### Supported Annotations

Most configuration keys in non-Kubernetes deployments can be specified as annotation in an Ingress Resource definition. The format is `ingress.pomerium.io/${OPTION_NAME}`. The expandable list below contains the annotations available, which behave as described in our reference documentation (with links to the appropriate reference documentation).

::: details Pomerium-Standard Annotations

- [`ingress.pomerium.io/allow_any_authenticated_user`]
- [`ingress.pomerium.io/allow_public_unauthenticated_access`]
- [`ingress.pomerium.io/allow_websockets`]
- [`ingress.pomerium.io/allowed_domains`]
- [`ingress.pomerium.io/allowed_groups`]
- [`ingress.pomerium.io/allowed_idp_claims`]
- [`ingress.pomerium.io/allowed_users`]
- [`ingress.pomerium.io/cors_allow_preflight`]

> - [`ingress.pomerium.io/host_path_regex_rewrite_pattern]

Reviewer 2: several of these paths are missing a tick.

Author: tic added.

- [`ingress.pomerium.io/host_path_regex_rewrite_substitution]
- [`ingress.pomerium.io/host_rewrite]
- [`ingress.pomerium.io/host_rewrite_header]
- [`ingress.pomerium.io/idle_timeout`]
- [`ingress.pomerium.io/outlier_detection`]
- [`ingress.pomerium.io/pass_identity_headers`]
- [`ingress.pomerium.io/policy`]
- [`ingress.pomerium.io/preserve_host_header`]
- [`ingress.pomerium.io/remove_request_headers`]
- [`ingress.pomerium.io/rewrite_response_headers`]
- [`ingress.pomerium.io/set_request_headers`]
- [`ingress.pomerium.io/set_response_headers`]
- [`ingress.pomerium.io/timeout`]
- [`ingress.pomerium.io/tls_server_name`]
- [`ingress.pomerium.io/tls_skip_verify`]

:::

> The remaining annotations are specific to or behave differently in this context:

Reviewer 2: Which context?

Author: Updated the copy to be clearer.

| Annotation                        | Description |
| --------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `ingress.pomerium.io/tls_custom_ca_secret`            | Name of Kubernetes `tls` Secret containing a custom [CA certificate][`tls_custom_ca_secret`] for the upstream. |
| `ingress.pomerium.io/tls_client_secret`               | Name of Kubernetes `tls` Secret containing a [client certificate][tls_client_certificate] for connecting to the upstream. |
| `ingress.pomerium.io/tls_downstream_client_ca_secret` | Name of Kubernetes `tls` Secret containing a [Client CA][client-certificate-authority] for validating downstream clients. |
| `ingress.pomerium.io/secure_upstream`                 | When set to true, use `https` when connecting to the upstream endpoint. |

::: tip

Every value for the annotations above must be in `string` format.

:::

> ### Cert Manager Integration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### cert-manager Integration
```

> Pomerium Ingress Controller supports utilizing [cert-manager](https://cert-manager.io/) for provisioning certificates.  These may come from the [`Ingress` shim](https://cert-manager.io/docs/usage/ingress/) or explicitly configured [`Certificate` resources](https://cert-manager.io/docs/usage/certificate/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Pomerium Ingress Controller can use [cert-manager](https://cert-manager.io/) to automatically provision certificates.  These may come from the [`Ingress` shim](https://cert-manager.io/docs/usage/ingress/) or explicitly configured [`Certificate` resources](https://cert-manager.io/docs/usage/certificate/).
```

Reviewer 2: > These may come from the 

What are these? Certificates? Configuration details?

> To use [HTTP01 Challenges](https://cert-manager.io/docs/configuration/acme/http01/) with your Issuer, configure the solver class to match the Ingress Controller.  The Ingress Controller will automatically configure policy to facilitate the HTTP01 challenge:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use [HTTP01 Challenges](https://cert-manager.io/docs/configuration/acme/http01/) with your [Issuer](https://cert-manager.io/docs/concepts/issuer/), configure the solver class to match the Ingress Controller.  The Ingress Controller will automatically configure policy to facilitate the HTTP01 challenge:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1
kind: Issuer
metadata:
  name: example-issuer
spec:
  acme:
    server: https://acme-staging-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory
    privateKeySecretRef:
      name: example-issuer-account-key
    solvers:
    - http01:
       ingress:
         class: pomerium
```

> An example of using the Ingress Shim with an Ingress resource managed by Pomerium:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An example of using the [ingress-shim](https://cert-manager.io/docs/usage/ingress/) with an Ingress resource managed by Pomerium:
```

Cert-managers ingress shim? I don't think they capitalize it.

```yaml
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  annotations:
    cert-manager.io/issuer: example-issuer
    ingress.pomerium.io/policy: '[{"allow":{"and":[{"email":{"is":"user@exampledomain.com"}}]}}]'
  name: example
spec:
  ingressClassName: pomerium
  rules:
  - host: example.localhost.pomerium.io
    http:
      paths:
      - backend:
          service:
            name: example
            port:
              name: http
        path: /
        pathType: Prefix
  tls:
  - hosts:
    - example.localhost.pomerium.io
    secretName: example-tls
```

## HTTPS endpoints

> The `Ingress` spec assumes that all communications to the service is sent in plaintext. For more information, see the [TLS](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/#tls) section of the Ingress API documentation. Pomerium supports HTTPS communication with upstream endpoints, including mTLS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `Ingress` spec assumes that all communications to the upstream service is sent in plaintext. For more information, see the [TLS](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/#tls) section of the Ingress API documentation. Pomerium supports HTTPS communication with upstream endpoints, including mTLS.
```

Upstream service?

Annotate your `Ingress` with

```yaml
ingress.pomerium.io/secure_upstream: true
```

> Additional TLS may be supplied by creating a Kubernetes secret(s) in the same namespaces as `Ingress` resource. Please note that we do not support file paths or embedded secret references.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additional TLS certificates may be supplied by creating a Kubernetes secret(s) in the same namespaces as `Ingress` resource. Please note that we do not support file paths or embedded secret references.
```

Certificates? CAs? Configurations?

Author: I'm pretty sure this is just for certificates, and stands as is. @travisgroth to confirm.

Reviewer: 👍  yes

> Additional TLS may be supplied by creating a Kubernetes secret(s) in the same namespaces as `Ingress` resource. Please note that we do not support file paths or embedded secret references.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additional TLS may be supplied by creating a Kubernetes secret(s) in the same namespaces as the`Ingress` resource. Please note that we do not support file paths or embedded secret references.
```

or an?

- [`ingress.pomerium.io/tls_client_secret`](https://pomerium.io/reference/readme.md#tls-client-certificate)
- [`ingress.pomerium.io/tls_custom_ca_secret`](https://pomerium.io/reference/readme.md#tls-custom-certificate-authority)
- [`ingress.pomerium.io/tls_downstream_client_ca_secret`](#supported-annotations)

> Please note that the referenced `tls_client_secret` must be a [TLS Kubernetes secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/#tls-secrets). `tls_custom_ca_secret` and `tls_downstream_client_ca_secret` must contain `ca.crt` containing a .PEM encoded (Base64-encoded DER format) public certificate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Please note that the referenced `tls_client_secret` must be a [TLS Kubernetes secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/#tls-secrets). `tls_custom_ca_secret` and `tls_downstream_client_ca_secret` must contain `ca.crt` containing a .PEM encoded (base64-encoded DER format) public certificate.
```

### External services

> You may refer to external services by defining a `Service` with `externalName`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You may refer to external services by defining a [Service](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/) with `externalName`.
```

      http:
        paths:
          - path: /
            pathType: Prefix
            backend:
              service:
                name: external
                port:
                  name: https
```

## Troubleshooting

### View Event History

Pomerium Ingress Controller will add **events** to the Ingress objects as it processes them.

```
kubectl describe ingress/my-ingress
```

```log
Events:
  Type    Reason   Age   From              Message
  ----    ------   ----  ----              -------
  Normal  Updated  18s   pomerium-ingress  updated pomerium configuration
```

If an error occurs, it may be reflected in the events:

```log
Events:
  Type     Reason       Age                 From              Message
  ----     ------       ----                ----              -------
  Normal   Updated      5m53s               pomerium-ingress  updated pomerium configuration
  Warning  UpdateError  3s                  pomerium-ingress  upsert routes: parsing ingress: annotations: applying policy annotations: parsing policy: invalid rules in policy: unsupported conditional "maybe", only and, or, not, nor and action are allowed
```

### HSTS

> If your domain has [HSTS] enabled and you visit an endpoint while Pomerium is using the self-signed bootstrap certificate or a LetsEncrypt staging certificate (before cert-manager has provisioned a production certificate), the untrusted certificate may be pinned in your browser and needs to be reset. See [this article](https://www.ssl2buy.com/wiki/how-to-clear-hsts-settings-on-chrome-firefox-and-ie-browsers) for more information.

Author: ```suggestion
If your domain has [HSTS] enabled and you visit an endpoint while Pomerium is using the self-signed bootstrap certificate or a LetsEncrypt staging certificate (before cert-manager has provisioned a production certificate), the untrusted certificate may be pinned in your browser and would need to be reset. See [this article](https://www.ssl2buy.com/wiki/how-to-clear-hsts-settings-on-chrome-firefox-and-ie-browsers) for more information.
```

- [Ingress (Kubernetes Docs)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/)
- [Pomerium Helm Chart README: Pomerium Ingress Controller](https://github.com/travisgroth/pomerium-helm/tree/master/charts/pomerium#pomerium-ingress-controller)
- [Pomerium Kubernetes Ingress Controller (code repository)](https://github.com/pomerium/ingress-controller)

[`ingress.pomerium.io/allow_any_authenticated_user`]: /reference/readme.md#allow-any-authenticated-user
[`ingress.pomerium.io/allow_public_unauthenticated_access`]: /reference/readme.md#public-access
[`ingress.pomerium.io/allow_websockets`]: /reference/readme.md#websocket-connections
[`ingress.pomerium.io/allowed_domains`]: /reference/readme.md#allowed-domains
[`ingress.pomerium.io/allowed_groups`]: /reference/readme.md#allowed-groups
[`ingress.pomerium.io/allowed_idp_claims`]: /reference/readme.md#allowed-idp-claims
[`ingress.pomerium.io/allowed_users`]: /reference/readme.md#allowed-users
[`ingress.pomerium.io/cors_allow_preflight`]: /reference/readme.md#cors-preflight
[`ingress.pomerium.io/health_checks`]: /reference/readme.md#health-checks

> [`ingress.pomerium.io/host_path_regex_rewrite_pattern]: /reference/readme.md#host-rewrite

Reviewer 2: These are missing post-fix ticks.

Author: Resolved.
